# Solidworks Macros

This repo is a list of Solidworks macros I have created to help with the design process.
I have attached compiled/ready to use *.swp files as well as *.bas files that allow to view the code.

<b>Auto name and save</b> <-- will immediately save the file using common properties "number - description". Very useful as you can type those information once in common properties, and it will be used across the project, for example in drawing tables, BOM's, PDM.

<b>Draft Flat Prefix</b> <-- this macro will work only with drafts and it is design to copy the name of part on the draft and add Flat in front of the name. This is used in a technique that helps to rapidly generate DXF files for sheet metal parts and other parts cut in 2D. This macro is used to save a draft of sheet part in flat view in 1:1 scale (recommending preset template). Thanks to that all parts requiring DXF files will have 2 drawings, one regular with your bends, dimensions, welds, etc. and the other one with only flat view. This makes the whole set linked and easy to update/revise, easy to grab and spot in Windows explorer, and a new set of DXF's can be generated by using Solidworks task scheduler in minutes.

<b>Open Flat Pattern Drawing</b> <-- simple macro that helps to quickly open files saved using "Draft Flat Prefix". It only works with parts and draft files and, as with the rest of those, works best when bind to a keyboard shortcut.

<b>KG in properties</b> <-- this will change your mass units to Kg and open custom properties window (to check the value). This macro had been designed to quickly change units of mass and only works if the unit system is set to custom. The same principle can be used in order to change different units and settings.

<b>Scale +1 / Scale -1</b> <-- this 2 macros are used in a drawing to change its global scale. It works grate if combined with keyboard shortcut like "Ctrl+/Ctrl-". It requires the drawing views to be set to "Use sheet scale", which is the default and helps to maintain scale values between views and sheet format value that might be somewhere in the drawing table.
